# PDS Resources

This file was generated by the PDS Resources CLI repository in Gitlab.

### Prerequisites Mendix 9

1. Check if your app has PDS installed by checking if you have a folder under `/theme/mps` or `/theme/pds`. If so please ask for help on the #platformdesignsystem Slack channel.
2. If you come from Mendix 8 you first need to follow the [upgrade guide](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/moving-from-atlas-2-to-3) to upgrade Atlas UI to Mendix 9. It's important to understand the new structural changes and the differences between the `/theme` and the `/themesource` folder. In Mendix 9 the structure of PDS in Studio Pro changes quite drastically to allow for a closer integration with Atlas UI.

### Installation Mendix 9

1. You already did this: Add [this module](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/118507) to your application.
2. Add [the Mendix Project Styling module](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/119562) to your application. This module allows you to create custom CSS. Even when you don't need custom CSS this module is still required.
3. Navigate to `/themesource/platformdesignsystem/web/move-my-contents`. Drag the files in the folder (not the folder itself) to `/theme/web`. Check further down in this document what just happened.
4. In Studio Pro open the `Navigation`, open the `Responsive web` tab and `Select` the `Application icon`. Choose `PlatformDesignSytem.Images.Mendix`.
5. Import the MxDock module from Marketplace.
6. Check your previous PDS major version number either in the PlatformDesignSystem module - it's one of the folders - or check the `css` file under `/theme/mps` or `/theme/pds`. Then use the Mendix Platform Styling [Upgrade Log](https://gitlab.rnd.mendix.com/online-platform/platform-frontend/platform-design-system/mendix-platform-styling/-/blob/master/UPGRADE.md) to upgrade to the new major version.

### How to use

1. Use the several Building Blocks in this module to speed up your page development.
2. For making small changes to the styling like adding extra spacing, changing colors and more you can use the utility classes listed on https://designsystem.mendix.com/ (also known as helper classes in Atlas UI).
3. For making bigger changes you can create a new module in your project named `MendixProjectStyling` and add Building Blocks or Layouts in the model, and custom styling via `/themesource/mendixprojectstyling/web/`. Read the examples well.

### Something went wrong

1. When encountering missing widgets: Search the name of the widget in the Marketplace in Studio Pro and install the latest version.
2. If the Module is not indicated as an UI resource module yet (the icon of the module should be green): Right click the module and select `Mark as UI resources module`. In Project settings under the `Theme` tab you can set the order of the compilation of the styling. Make sure PDS is last in the list.

### What just happened?

1. First `theme/web/custom-variables.scss` was adjusted. We removed all content from the file and replaced it with `@import "../../themesource/platformdesignsystem/web/custom-variables";`. This way Atlas UI will understand to use the custom variables from PDS.
2. Then for `theme/web/exclusion-variables.scss` we again removed all content from the file and replaced it with `@import "../../themesource/platformdesignsystem/web/exclusion-variables";`. This way Atlas UI will be able to exclude compiling certain parts of the CSS.
3. Finally in `/theme/web/index.html` we made sure to change the html tag into `id="mxapp" class="theme-default"`. If you do not have a `index.html` run your application at least once and check the `/deployment/web` folder for `index-example.html` file. Add that file to the `/theme` folder, rename it to `index.html` and make the adjustments there.
